readme.md, before:

Util.Embedded
=============

Licensed under GPL v3

Branches:
master [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/malachib/util.embedded.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/malachib/util.embedded)
dev [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/malachib/util.embedded.svg?branch=dev)](https://travis-ci.org/malachib/util.embedded)

Overview
--------

Comprises reusable low-level functionality for use in your embedded and/or
cross-platform endeavors.

Code is Arduino, POSIX and mbed OS friendly.  Experimental support for ESP-OPEN-RTOS.
Plays nice with PlatformIO

* C++ iostream shims; use istream/ostream etc. without all the bloat
* Circular buffer
* Debug console: Menuing system for serial port (or other stream) control code to run diagnostics and acquire status
    * Telnet capable (coming soon)
* Linked lists, single and doubly linked

Note Circular Buffer and its close relatives conform to the layer1-layer5 design
as described later.  This could be critical for your small-footprint environment.

Experimental:
-------------

Following code has worked to varying degrees but has not been tested for a while.
Code in this category is more subject to breaking changes:

* C#-like event code
* Service objects facilitating start, stop and status querying
 * Canned MQTT Service for use with Adafruit's MQTT libraries (must define either MQTT_TYPE_WIFI or MQTT_TYPE_FONA).  Hard wired to either WiFi or FONA at this time
 * Canned Wifi Service for use with ESP8266 (must define MQTT_TYPE_WIFI)
* Abstract driver layer (work in progress):
 * GNSS (GPS)
* Hardware helper layer - strong effort put to be HAL-like, but no promises =)
    * AVR
        * power management
        * sleep
        * watchdog
        * pin change interrupts
    * SAM
        * sleep (coming soon)

Obsolete:
---------

Following code worked at once time, but is now being put out to pasture.  If you
seee it, don't use it:

* Cross-thread RPC mechanism (if using an external threading tool)


Other preprocessor defines
--------------------------

* FEATURE_IOSTREAM: configures POSIX iostreams to take precedence over our lightweight libs

## Code paradigm:

* layer 1: barest-metal, tends to be templates; buffer pointers avoided
* layer 2: low-level.  buffer pointers often used.  size fields are templatized constants
* layer 3: low-level.  buffer pointers and size fields used
* layer 4: mid-level.  buffers inline (pointers avoided).  virtual functions allowed
  * layer 4 is currently experimental and subject to change definition.
* layer 5: mid-level.  buffer pointers used.  virtual functions allowed

Hardware Compatibility
----------------------

Tested and works on the following:

Device           | Framework          | Features
---------------- | ------------------ | --------
ATmega328P       | Arduino            |
ATmega32u4       | Arduino            | IOS, buffer
ATtiny85         | Arduino            |
ESP8266          | Arduino            |
ESP8266          | ESP-OPEN-RTOS      |
ATSAMD21G        | Arduino            | IOS
ATSAMD21G        | mbed OS            |
STM32F401RE      | mbed OS            | IOS
x86              | POSIX              | IOS

Most code in this lib is designed to work everywhere, so missing
features on this chart only represents that it is *untested* , not
necessarily *unavailable*.

Data/Memory code size
---------------------

I won't lie, these libraries take space.  There are a slew of #defines to help curb its appetite:

* MEMORY_OPT: Trim memory by reducing internal buffers sizes and string descriptions
 * MEMORY_OPT_CODE: Trim code space by reducing size of string descriptions,
   some debug/bounds code, and a few potentially less critical features
 * MEMORY_OPT_DATA: Trim data space by reducing various buffer sizes
* CONSOLE_FEATURE_FULL: Enable all options for Console (enabled by default when
  MEMORY_OPT_CODE is not enabled)
 * CONSOLE_FEATURE_AUTOCOMPLETE_COMMAND: Enable 'tab' key to auto-complete a menu
   name in console mode
 * CONSOLE_FEATURE_COUT: Presently disabled by default, this switches Console code
   from global singular-stream to Console managing its own private stream; useful
   for multiple consoles speaking over different streams (i.e. Serial and telnet)
* DRIVER_FEATURE_VTABLE_SUPPRESS: Disables virtual tables/polymorphism for drivers
* EVENT_FEATURE_TYPE2: Force events to never operate in Type1 mode, only Type2.  
   *May* save code space if using events heavily.

Notes
-----

Remember, istream/ostream are (arguably) by design blocking I/O.  There is a lot of
discussion about this on the internet.  So far I have done nothing to adjust or enhance
the FEATURE_IOSTREAM_SHIM to be async.

Commit message:

Mentioning "in_avail" deviation of our iostream implementation

readme.md, after:

Util.Embedded
=============

Licensed under GPL v3

Branches:
master [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/malachib/util.embedded.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/malachib/util.embedded)
dev [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/malachib/util.embedded.svg?branch=dev)](https://travis-ci.org/malachib/util.embedded)

Overview
--------

Comprises reusable low-level functionality for use in your embedded and/or
cross-platform endeavors.

Code is Arduino, POSIX and mbed OS friendly.  Experimental support for ESP-OPEN-RTOS.
Plays nice with PlatformIO

* C++ iostream shims; use istream/ostream etc. without all the bloat
* Circular buffer
* Debug console: Menuing system for serial port (or other stream) control code to run diagnostics and acquire status
    * Telnet capable (coming soon)
* Linked lists, single and doubly linked
* Templatized toString/fromString

Note Circular Buffer and its close relatives conform to the layer1-layer5 design
as described later.  This could be critical for your small-footprint environment.

Experimental:
-------------

Following code has worked to varying degrees but has not been tested for a while.
Code in this category is more subject to breaking changes:

* C#-like event code
* Service objects facilitating start, stop and status querying
 * Canned MQTT Service for use with Adafruit's MQTT libraries (must define either MQTT_TYPE_WIFI or MQTT_TYPE_FONA).  Hard wired to either WiFi or FONA at this time
 * Canned Wifi Service for use with ESP8266 (must define MQTT_TYPE_WIFI)
* Abstract driver layer (work in progress):
 * GNSS (GPS)
* Hardware helper layer - strong effort put to be HAL-like, but no promises =)
    * AVR
        * power management
        * sleep
        * watchdog
        * pin change interrupts
    * SAM
        * sleep (coming soon)

Obsolete:
---------

Following code worked at once time, but is now being put out to pasture.  If you
seee it, don't use it:

* Cross-thread RPC mechanism (if using an external threading tool)


Other preprocessor defines
--------------------------

* FEATURE_IOSTREAM: configures POSIX iostreams to take precedence over our lightweight libs

## Code paradigm:

* layer 1: barest-metal, tends to be templates; buffer pointers avoided
* layer 2: low-level.  buffer pointers often used.  size fields are templatized constants
* layer 3: low-level.  buffer pointers and size fields used
* layer 4: mid-level.  buffers inline (pointers avoided).  virtual functions allowed
  * layer 4 is currently experimental and subject to change definition.
* layer 5: mid-level.  buffer pointers used.  virtual functions allowed

Hardware Compatibility
----------------------

Tested and works on the following:

Device           | Framework          | Features
---------------- | ------------------ | --------
ATmega328P       | Arduino            |
ATmega32u4       | Arduino            | IOS, buffer
ATtiny85         | Arduino            |
ESP8266          | Arduino            |
ESP8266          | ESP-OPEN-RTOS      |
ATSAMD21G        | Arduino            | IOS
ATSAMD21G        | mbed OS            |
STM32F303K8      | mbed OS            | IOS
STM32F401RE      | mbed OS            | IOS
x86              | POSIX              | IOS

Most code in this lib is designed to work everywhere, so missing
features on this chart only represents that it is *untested* , not
necessarily *unavailable*.

Data/Memory code size
---------------------

I won't lie, these libraries take space.  There are a slew of #defines to help curb its appetite:

* MEMORY_OPT: Trim memory by reducing internal buffers sizes and string descriptions
 * MEMORY_OPT_CODE: Trim code space by reducing size of string descriptions,
   some debug/bounds code, and a few potentially less critical features
 * MEMORY_OPT_DATA: Trim data space by reducing various buffer sizes
* CONSOLE_FEATURE_FULL: Enable all options for Console (enabled by default when
  MEMORY_OPT_CODE is not enabled)
 * CONSOLE_FEATURE_AUTOCOMPLETE_COMMAND: Enable 'tab' key to auto-complete a menu
   name in console mode
 * CONSOLE_FEATURE_COUT: Presently disabled by default, this switches Console code
   from global singular-stream to Console managing its own private stream; useful
   for multiple consoles speaking over different streams (i.e. Serial and telnet)
* DRIVER_FEATURE_VTABLE_SUPPRESS: Disables virtual tables/polymorphism for drivers
* EVENT_FEATURE_TYPE2: Force events to never operate in Type1 mode, only Type2.  
   *May* save code space if using events heavily.

# Notes

Remember, istream/ostream are (arguably) by design blocking I/O.  There is a lot of
discussion about this on the internet.  Our lightweight iostream implementation follows suit, but deviates importantly with its "in_avail" behavior.  

"in_avail" for our implementation
reliably reports available bytes in the stream and does not emulate the buffered behavior
of official iostream libraries.  As such, one may use it for polling loops for an 
async-ish behavior.
